Update and cleanup README.md with new hit testing approach (#64)
WICG/html-in-canvas: README.md

# HTML-in-Canvas

This is a proposal for using 2D and 3D `<canvas>` to customize the rendering of HTML content.

## Status

This is a living explainer which is continuously updated as we receive feedback.

> This is implemented behind a flag in Chromium and can be enabled with [chrome://flags/#canvas-draw-element](chrome://flags/#canvas-draw-element).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The APIs described here are implemented behind a flag in Chromium and can be enabled with [chrome://flags/#canvas-draw-element](chrome://flags/#canvas-draw-element).
```

## Motivation

> There is no web API to easily render complex layouts of text and other content into a `<canvas>`. As a result, `<canvas>`-based content suffers in accessibility, internationalization, performance, and quality.

Reviewer 2: Grammatically this change is not needed. But for some it may improve readability.

Author: Done.

### Use cases

* **Styled, Laid Out Content in Canvas.** There’s a strong need for better styled text support in Canvas. Examples include chart components (legend, axes, etc.), rich content boxes in creative tools, and in-game menus.
* **Accessibility Improvements.** There is currently no guarantee that the canvas fallback content used for `<canvas>` accessibility always matches the rendered content, and such fallback content can be hard to generate. With this API, elements drawn into the canvas will match their corresponding canvas fallback.
* **Composing HTML Elements with Shaders.** A limited set of CSS shaders, such as filter effects, are already available, but there is a desire to use general WebGL shaders with HTML.
* **HTML Rendering in a 3D Context.** 3D aspects of sites and games need to render rich 2D content into surfaces within a 3D scene.

## Proposed solution

> The solution introduces three main primitives: an attribute to opt-in canvas elements, methods to draw them, and an observer to handle updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The solution introduces three main primitives: an attribute to opt-in canvas elements, methods to draw child elements into the canvas, and an observer to handle updates.
```

Author: Done.

### 1. The `layoutsubtree` attribute
The `layoutsubtree` attribute on a `<canvas>` element opts in canvas descendants to have layout and participate in hit testing. It causes the direct children of the `<canvas>` to have a stacking context, become a containing block for all descendants, and have paint containment.

### 2. `drawElementImage` (and WebGL/WebGPU equivalents)

> The `drawElementImage` method renders a DOM element and its subtree into the canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `drawElementImage(element)` method renders the DOM `element` and its subtree into the canvas.
```

**Requirements & Constraints:**
* `layoutsubtree` must be specified on the `<canvas>`.
* The `element` must be a direct child of the `<canvas>`.
* **Transforms:** The canvas's current transformation matrix is applied. CSS transforms on the source `element` are **ignored** for drawing (but still apply to hit testing/accessibility, see below).
* **Clipping:** Overflowing content (both layout and ink overflow) is clipped to the element's content box.
* **Sizing:** The optional `width`/`height` arguments specify a destination rect in canvas coordinates. If omitted, the element is drawn at its intrinsic size.

**WebGL/WebGPU Support:**
Similar methods are added for 3D contexts: `WebGLRenderingContext.texElementImage2D` and `copyElementImageToTexture`.

### 3. `fireOnEveryPaint`
A `fireOnEveryPaint` option is added to `ResizeObserverOptions`. This allows script to be notified whenever descendants of a `<canvas>` may render differently and may need to be re-drawn. The callback runs at Resize Observer timing (after DOM style/layout, but before paint).

### Synchronization

> Once drawn, the canvas image is static. Authors must explicitly redraw the element to reflect subsequent changes. To assist with syncing the DOM position with the drawn image (essential for accessibility and hit testing), `drawElementImage` returns a `DOMMatrix` which can be applied to the DOM element's `transform` style to make the layout position match the drawn position. The `getElementTransform` API is a helper to return the same `transform` for WebGL/WebGPU cases.

Reviewer: How does getElementTransform work? Is that actually possible?

Author: I rewrote this to make it clearer. It now says:
> It is essential for hit testing, intersection observer, and hit testing that the DOM position is kept in sync with the position of the drawn image.
> To assist with this, `drawElementImage` returns a `DOMMatrix` which can be applied to the DOM element's `transform` style to make the DOM position match the drawn position. There is no explicit current transform matrix in WebGL/WebGPU, so the `getElementTransform(element, draw_transform)` helper method is provided to make it easy to adjust a provided `DOMMatrix` transform so that it can be applied to the element's `transform` style to make the DOM position match the drawn position.

> Once drawn, the canvas image is static. Authors must explicitly redraw the element to reflect subsequent changes. To assist with syncing the DOM position with the drawn image (essential for accessibility and hit testing), `drawElementImage` returns a `DOMMatrix` which can be applied to the DOM element's `transform` style to make the layout position match the drawn position. The `getElementTransform` API is a helper to return the same `transform` for WebGL/WebGPU cases.

Author: Good idea. Rewrote this to:

> It is essential for hit testing, intersection observer, and hit testing that the DOM position is kept in sync with the position of the drawn image.
> To assist with this, `drawElementImage` returns a `DOMMatrix` which can be applied to the DOM element's `transform` style to make the DOM position match the drawn position. There is no explicit current transform matrix in WebGL/WebGPU, so the `getElementTransform(element, draw_transform)` helper method is provided to make it easy to adjust a provided `DOMMatrix` transform so that it can be applied to the element's `transform` style to make the DOM position match the drawn position.
